The smashHitCore ontology is being developed for GDPR-compliant secure and controlled sharing of personal and industrial data. smashHitCore represents informed consent as defined by GDPR (Art. 7) but is not limited to it. Based on limitations of existing ontologies for consent such as the ones presented in Section 2, we have built a semantic model that also models sensor data, contracts, licenses and involved entities. The current version of smashHitCore (v1) focuses mainly on semantically represent- ing informed consent and concepts such as contracts and licenses are not yet modelled in detail. The ontology development will go through several iterations as the smashHit project progresses. However, the current version of smashHitCore can already be used as intended: as the main data model for the smashHit legal knowledge graph and for per- forming GDPR compliance checking. The ontology provides a common understanding of informed consent, contracts and data processing in different context, for all entities that are involved with the smashHit framework. Future work will focus on the classes Contract and License and concepts such as privacy and security. For example, defining specific terms and conditions that might apply for each contract type, the status of a contract, example contexts and specific privacy measures (e.g. privacy policies and notices) that apply. Further, given the GDPR mandated Privacy by Design approach (Art. 25) smashHitCore v2 will include privacy and security concepts that enable seamless communication between the privacy and security layer of smashHit and the rest of the system as well as concepts and properties for modelling the context under which the consent is being given.
